Β eeeee of
flattery and
insincerity.

The
nnnnnn tional
good man.

42 Horace : Quintus Horatius Flaccus

If any one should begin to tell of the battles you had
fought by sea and land, and then should go on to please
your ears with words like these: '¹ Jupiter, who takes
care of you and the City, leaves us in doubt whether
the people care more for you or you for the people ¹¹,
you could perhaps recognize that as praise due, not to
you, but only to Augustus Caesar!

ue Horace: ”When you suffer yourself to be called wise
ea and accomplished, do you accept the compliment‚ tell

me, comrade? Π

Quinctius: '¹ Yes‚ truly, 1 like to be called a good and
prudent man, just as you do yourself.¹'

Horace: '¹ But the people who give you this applause
to-day‚ tomorrow they will refuse it, just as the same
voters who elect to office an unworthy man may soon
remove him from it. Resign, they say, the honor is
another's. l resign, and retire sadly.

'¹ l-lowever‚ if these same people acclaim me a thief,
lost to sense of shame, and assert that l have strangled
my father, l shall not, under such false calumnies, be
bitter or change color. For undeserved honors please,
while false reports alarm only him who is untrustworthy
and in need of betterment.''

If one asks: ''Who then is a good man? '¹ The
usual answer is: '¹ l-le who keeps the decrees of the
Senate and the statutes and laws of the State3 before
whom as judge many grave suits are justly decided;

